Now how do we get the user location?
You learned that for that you can use navigator geolocation, geolocation is a browser API that is provided
in Javascript that allows us to get the user's location. If we search for MDN geolocation, we find
the official MDN documentation on this API
and what you'll see here if you scroll down is that this has quite decent browser support.
The geolocation API here has really good support,
Internet Explorer 9 and higher supports it, Safari supports it,
so this should really work in all the browsers we're targeting.
Nonetheless if you want to be super safe, you can add an if check here and check if navigator.geolocation
is a thing or to be precise, if it's not a thing by adding an exclamation mark in front of that
and if we make it into this if block, we know that we don't have access to the geolocation API and in
that case, we might want to return and not continue here with this function and simply throw an alert
or show an alert to the user where we say location feature is not available in your browser,
please use a more modern browser or manually enter an address.
So here, my fallback code is that I tell the user who might be using my web page here that we can't auto
locate him because it's just not supported by the browser and that therefore the fix for the user
is to either use a more modern browser or use that alternative of entering an address here
and with that, I think we're really doing our best here to make sure that we support this feature and
give a helpful feedback
if it's not available. Now after this if check,
so if we don't make it in there and if we would make it in here we would return,
so if we make it past this if check, we know that geolocation is available,
well then I indeed want to get the current location of the user.
So for that, we can use navigator.geolocation here and then call get current position,
this will get the current position of the user and it takes two callback arguments here which we can
pass in which will be the two functions in the end which will be triggered when we either succeed getting
the position or when we fail.
So here we either get a success result in the first callback function and I'm just passing in an anonymous
arrow function here,
this will be the argument automatically given to us by this browser API if we succeed or we make it into
this second callback,
the second argument here which I pass in, this would be my anonymous function that gets triggered if
we fail to get the user location. Now let's start with the failed case, if we do fail to get the location
here,
well then I want to show an alert where I just say could not locate you unfortunately,
please enter an address manually.
So again even if we fail to automatically get the location here, we do offer an alternative to our users
that tell them what they can do to still use our application
and of course that is something you want to do in your applications so that you provide a good
user experience. In the success result on the other hand, we know or we will get the user location
data and we know that it succeeded,
so that is where we will later then display the map in the end.
So here for the moment, I just want to get my coordinates and I can get them out of my success result
argument here and my coordinates should be a new object here where I have a latitude, so a lat key
and where I have a lng, a long key
and by the way of course you could create a new class for this which you then just create with the new
keyword to make sure that you always have the correctly named properties in there,
here I'll do it on the fly with this object literal notation.
So my latitude can be received from success result.coords.latitude,
I also get autocompletion here, if you want to see what else is in success result, you can of course
always console log success result, that would be possible
but here I know that my latitude will be stored here and here for successful result I got my longitude.
Now one thing I will do here which you of course don't need for the application in general but which I
want to have here is I'll add math random * 50 and I'll add this to both and I'm just doing this
so that I can show you the result without you being able to locate me here,
sorry about that but I don't want to expose my address here
so that's what I'm doing here,
of course you would omit this, this is not needed for the app, this will actually ensure that we're not
getting the correct position,
you of course want to get the correct position,
I'm just doing this here to kind of not show my exact location here.
So with that, we got the coordinates and for the moment, we can just console log them to see that it worked
and of course later, we'll change this and make sure that we don't just log them but that we use them to
show this on a map.
Now with that, we need to make sure that we of course trigger our constructor here for the place finder
and we do that by instantiating place finder.
So here below my class, I will call new place finder and actually that's all I got to do here,
we don't even need to store the instance in any constant because I'm not doing anything with the instance,
I just want it to exist,
of course you could nonetheless store it in a constant if you wanted to. With that if you save that and
you then click on get current location, you should be asked by your browser whether you want to allow this
and yes I do want to allow this and thereafter, we'll need to wait,
we probably should add some kind of feedback here and then we get back a location here.
So I get back a location here and therefore this works.
Now before we start displaying this on any map, let's make sure that we provide some feedback to the
user that tells the user that something is happening, so that whilst we're waiting for the location to
be fetched, now in the second and third time this is super fast but whilst we're waiting for this to happen,
we actually get some spinner or some feedback that shows hey something is happening,
don't worry.